Theory & Concepts:
Introduction about SQLSQL (Structured Query  Language) is a nonprocedural language, you specify what you 
want, not how to get it. A block structured format of English key  words is used in this 
Query language. 
It has the following components.
  DDL (Data Definition Language)
  DML (DATA Manipulation Language)
  View definition
  Transaction Control
  Embedded SQL and Dynamic SQL
  Integrity
  Authorization
Data Definition LanguageThe SQL DDL allows specification of not only a set of relations but also information 
about each relation, including-  Schema for each relation
  The domain of values associated with each attribute.
  The integrity constraints.
  The set of indices to be maintained for each relation.
  The security and authorization information for each relation.
  The physical storage structure of each relation on disk.
Domain types in SQLThe SQL standard supports a variety of built in domain types, including-  Char (n)- A fixed length character length string with user specified length .
  Varchar (n)- A variable character length string with user specified maximum 
length n.
  Number (p, d)-A Fixed point number with user defined precision.
  Real, double precision- Floating point and double precision floating point 
numbers with machine dependent precision.
  Float (n)- A floating point number, with precision of at least n digits.
  Date- A calendar date containing a (four digit) year, month and day of the 
month.
  Time- The time of day, in hours, minutes and seconds Eg. Time ’09:30:00’. 
DDL statement for creating a tableSyntaxCreate table tablename
(columnnamedatatype(size), columnnamedatatype(size));
Creating a table from a tableSyntaxCREATE TABLE TABLENAME
[(columnname, columnname, ………)]
AS SELECT columnname, columnname……..FROM tablename;
Rules:
1.  Oracle reserved words cannot be used.
2.  Underscore, numerals, letters are allowed but not blank space.
3.  Maximum length for the table name is 30 characters.
4.  2 different tables should not have same name.
5.  We should specify a unique column name.
6.  We should specify proper data type along with width.
7.  We can include “not null” condition when needed. By default it is ‘null’.
Insertion of data into tablesSyntaxINSERT INTO tablename
[(columnname, columnname, ………)]
Values(expression, expression);
Inserting data into a table from another table:
SyntaxINSERT INTO tablename
SELECT columnname, columnname, …….
FROM tablename;
Insertion of selected data into a table from another table:
SyntaxINSERT INTO tablename
SELECT columnname, columnname……..
FROM tablename
WHERE columnname= expression;
Retrieving of data from the tablesSyntaxSELECT * FROM tablename;
The retrieving of specific columns from a tableSyntaxSELECT columnname, columnname, ….
FROM tablename;
Elimination of duplicates from the select statementSyntaxSELECT DISTINCT columnname, columnname
FROM tablename; 
Selecting a data set from table data-SyntaxSELECT columnname, columnname
FROM tablename
WHERE searchcondition;
The SELECT DISTINCT * SQL syntax scans through entire rows, and eliminates 
rows that have exactly the same contents in each column.
Syntax:
SELECT DISTINCT *
FROM TableName;
DML ( Data Manipulation Language) 
Data manipulation is 
  The retrieval of information stored in the database.
  The insertion of new information into the database.
  The deletion of information from the database.
  The modification of information stored by the appropriate data model. There are 
basically two types.
(i)  Procedural DML:-  require a user to specify what data are needed and how 
to get those data.
(ii)  Non Procedural DML  : require a user to specify what data are needed without 
specifying how to get those data.
Updating the content of a table:
In creation situation we may wish to change a value in table without changing all values 
in the tuple . For this purpose the update statement can be used.
Update table name
Set columnname = expression, columnname =expression……
Where columnname = expression;
Deletion Operation:-We can delete whole tuple ( rows) we can delete values on only particulars attributes.
Deletion of all rows
Syntax:
Delete from tablename;
Deletion of specified number of rows
Syntax:
Delete from table name
where search_condition;
Computation in expression lists used to select data:-+   Addition    -   Subtraction
*  multiplication    **   exponentiation
/   Division    ()   Enclosed operation
Renaming columns used with Expression Lists:  -  The default output column names can 
be renamed by the user if required
Syntax:
Select columnname   result_columnname, columnname
result_columnname 
from tablename;
Logical Operators:
The logical operators that can be used in SQL sentenced are
AND    all of must be included
OR    any of may be included
NOT    none of could be included
Range Searching: Between operation is used for range searching.
Pattern Searching: 
Themost commonly used operation on string is pattern matching using the operation ‘like’ 
we describe patterns by using two special characters.
  Percent (%) ; the % character matches any substring we consider the following 
examples.
o  ‘Perry %’ matches any string beginning with perry
o  ‘% idge % matches any string containing’ idge as substring.
o  ‘ - - - ‘ matches any string exactly three characters.
o  ‘ - - - % matches any string of at least of three characters.
Ordering tuples in a particular order:
  The ‘order by’ clause is used to sort the table data according to one or more 
columns of the table.
  The table rows are ordered in ascending order of the column values by default. 
The keyword used for the same is ‘asc’. For sorting the table data according to 
colname in descending order, keyword ‘desc’ is used.
Example: select colname1, colname2,… from tablename where search condition orderby 
colname1 asc/desc, colname2 asc/desc,…;
